The CTO was explaing that a business-ready generative AI system (GenAISys) offers functionality similar to ChatGPT-like platforms. It combines generative AI models, RAG, memory retention, and a wide range of ML and non-AI functions managed by an AI controller. The controller orchestrates tasks dynamically rather than following the same set of instructions for each task.
GenAISys relies on a generative AI model such as GPT-4o or any advanced LLM. The CTO said that we saw that getting access to the API is insufficient. Contextual awareness and memory retention are critical components of a GenAISys. Although they are seamlessly available in ChatGPT-like platforms, we have to build them into our systems.
We defined memoryless, short-term, long-term memory, and cross-topic memory. For the hybrid travel marketing campaign, we will distinguish semantic memory(facts) from episodic memory(personal events in time, for example). The CTO said that the we will need to use episodic memories of past customer trips to make the semantic aspects of our trips more engaging. We could for example, merge geological semantic information with customer experiences to make our advertisements.Context awareness relies heavily on memory. However, we cannot increase context forever without going beyond the context windows of a generative AI Model. And even so, if the context is too large, the AI model will not be able to grasp the nuances we expect in complex texts.
Advanced RAG can solve context window quantity and quality limitations by breaking content down into chunks, embedding them, and storing them in a vector store such as Pinecone. The retrieval process will target parts of document content, for example, to provide high-quality outputs. We took RAG further by introducing its orchestration role by storing generative AI scenarios that the AI controller will be able to retrieve and apply dynamically. The AI controller can then apply the instructions to trigger web searches, machine learning, and any functions we need for a project.
We confirmed that GenAISys, no matter how powerful it is, cannot exist without human expertise. Human expertise is required to design, deploy, maintain, and implement evolutions across a Generative AI System's lifecycle.
We realistically defined the implementation of business-ready GenAISys in three main forms, depending on resources and objectives: hybrid systems leveraging existing AI platforms, small-scale systems designed for focused use cases, or full-scale platforms capable of ChatGPT-grade performance.
Finally, we built a hands-on exploration of contextual awareness and memory retention in Python using GPT-4o. We laid the groundwork for an AI Controller that will dynamically manage the different types of memory we need in GenAISys.
We are ready to begin building a GenAISys AI controller.
